Rework gigasecond documentation (#1)
iHiD/problem-specifications: exercises/gigasecond/introduction.md

# Introduction

The way we measure time is kind of messy.
We have 60 seconds in a minute, and 60 minutes in an hour.
This comes from ancient Babylon, where they used 60 as the basis for their number system.

> We have 24 hours in a day, 7 days in a week, and months?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have 24 hours in a day, 7 days in a week, and how many days in a month?
```

> Well, for months it depends not only on which month it is, but also what calendar is used in the country you live in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Well, for days in a month it depends not only on which month it is, but also on what type of calendar is used in the country you live in.
```

Incorporated @tim-austin-7shifts suggestion as well.

If we ever colonize Mars or some other planet, it's going to get even messier.

> If someone says "year" do they mean Earth-year or Mars-year?

Reviewer 2: Probably too much, but I love this article on the consortium that is trying to decide [time standards for the moon](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-00185-z).  Turns out that clocks tick at different speeds due to different gravitational fields...

Author: Ok, this is fantastic.

My sense is that it's on the "too much" side of the line, but I love it.

> Instead, we could use the metric system, and count everything in seconds.

Reviewer 3: Are you open to subheadings? The story is taking a turn at this point.
```suggestion
## What if we only used seconds?

We can express time intervals just with seconds.
Then we can use metric system prefixes for writing large numbers of seconds in more easily comprehensible quantities.
```

Author: My gut instinct says that if we open up for subheadings we're encouraging _more_, where I am subtly hoping for less.

I like the way you broke this up, though, so I think I want to build on that. (I'm open to changing my mind on the subheading thing, I just don't have a good sense of the arguments yet).

- A food recipe might explain that you need to let the brownies cook in the oven for two kiloseconds (that's two thousand seconds).
- Perhaps you and your family would travel to somewhere exotic for two megaseconds (that's two million seconds).

> - And if you and your spouse were married for _a thousand million_ seconds, you would celebrate your one gigasecond anniversary.

Reviewer 2: I love all these examples.   😄   Given that each programming language handles these time "shenanigans" differently (see Python's [timedelta](https://docs.python.org/3.9/library/datetime.html#timedelta-objects) for some fun and games), I am thinking a comment/note encouraging students to look at how their programming language deals with time might be a good addition.  That said, perhaps its better to encourage each language track to do an instruction append for it. 🤔

Author: I think the instruction append is the way to go here. I've made a note in my pile of problem-specs notes, so that we can come back to it once we get a handle on this first pass of docs changes.

```exercism/note

> The author Vernor Vinge uses the metric system as the basis for time measurements in his science fiction novel, "A Deepness in the Sky".

Reviewer 2: Suggest a link to the novel here, for those of us who are die-hard sci-fi fans.  😄  There's [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Deepness_in_the_Sky), but also a review from [TOR publishers](https://www.tor.com/2017/08/03/science-fiction-with-something-for-everyone-a-deepness-in-the-sky-by-vernor-vinge/), that might be "friendlier".
